- [](../index.html)
- [API Reference](../jax.html)
- [`jax.lax` module](../jax.lax.html)
- jax.lax.precv

[ ](https://github.com/jax-ml/jax "Source repository")

- [ .rst](../_sources/_autosummary/jax.lax.precv.rst "Download source file")
-  .pdf

# jax.lax.precv

## Contents

- [`precv()`](#jax.lax.precv)

# jax.lax.precv[\#](#jax-lax-precv "Link to this heading")

jax.lax.precv(*token*, *out_shape*, *axis_name*, *perm*)[\[source\]](https://github.com/jax-ml/jax/blob/main/jax/_src/lax/parallel.py#L428-L464)[\#](#jax.lax.precv "Link to this definition")  
Perform a collective recv according to the permutation `perm`.

This function is an analog of the Recv HLO.

Parameters:  
- **token** – a compiler token, either generated by a matching psend or lax.create_token(). This is used to enforce control dependencies between collectives.

- **out_shape** – ShapeDtypeStruct(s) containing the dtype and shape of the result.

- **axis_name** – hashable Python object used to name a pmapped axis (see the [`jax.pmap()`](jax.pmap.html#jax.pmap "jax.pmap") documentation for more details).

- **perm** – list of pairs of ints, representing `(source_index,`` ``destination_index)` pairs that encode how the mapped axis named `axis_name` should be shuffled. The integer values are treated as indices into the mapped axis `axis_name`. Any two pairs should not have the same source index or the same destination index. For each index of the axis `axis_name` that does not correspond to a destination index in `perm`, the corresponding values in the result are filled with zeros of the appropriate type. The semantics here are platform-specific, and for GPU they correspond to NCCL recv.

Returns:  
Array(s) with the same shape as `out_shape`.

[](jax.lax.psend.html "previous page")

previous

jax.lax.psend

[](jax.lax.pbroadcast.html "next page")

next

jax.lax.pbroadcast

Contents

- [`precv()`](#jax.lax.precv)

By The JAX authors

© Copyright 2024, The JAX Authors.\
