- [](index.html)
- Glossary of terms

[ ](https://github.com/jax-ml/jax "Source repository")

- [ .rst](_sources/glossary.rst "Download source file")
-  .pdf

# Glossary of terms

# Glossary of terms[\#](#glossary-of-terms "Link to this heading")

Array[\#](#term-Array "Link to this term")  
JAX’s analog of [`numpy.ndarray`](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.ndarray.html#numpy.ndarray "(in NumPy v2.4)"). See [`jax.Array`](_autosummary/jax.Array.html#jax.Array "jax.Array").

CPU[\#](#term-CPU "Link to this term")  
Short for *Central Processing Unit*, CPUs are the standard computational architecture available in most computers. JAX can run computations on CPUs, but often can achieve much better performance on [GPU](#term-GPU) and [TPU](#term-TPU).

Device[\#](#term-Device "Link to this term")  
The generic name used to refer to the [CPU](#term-CPU), [GPU](#term-GPU), or [TPU](#term-TPU) used by JAX to perform computations.

forward-mode autodiff[\#](#term-forward-mode-autodiff "Link to this term")  
See [JVP](#term-JVP)

functional programming[\#](#term-functional-programming "Link to this term")  
A programming paradigm in which programs are defined by applying and composing [pure functions](#term-pure-function). JAX is designed for use with functional programs.

GPU[\#](#term-GPU "Link to this term")  
Short for *Graphical Processing Unit*, GPUs were originally specialized for operations related to rendering of images on screen, but now are much more general-purpose. JAX is able to target GPUs for fast operations on arrays (see also [CPU](#term-CPU) and [TPU](#term-TPU)).

jaxpr[\#](#term-jaxpr "Link to this term")  
Short for *JAX expression*, a jaxpr is an intermediate representation of a computation that is generated by JAX, and is forwarded to [XLA](#term-XLA) for compilation and execution. See [JAX internals: The jaxpr language](jaxpr.html#jax-internals-jaxpr) for more discussion and examples.

JIT[\#](#term-JIT "Link to this term")  
Short for *Just In Time* compilation, JIT in JAX generally refers to the compilation of array operations to [XLA](#term-XLA), most often accomplished using [`jax.jit()`](_autosummary/jax.jit.html#jax.jit "jax.jit").

JVP[\#](#term-JVP "Link to this term")  
Short for *Jacobian Vector Product*, also sometimes known as *forward-mode* automatic differentiation. For more details, see [Jacobian-Vector products (JVPs, aka forward-mode autodiff)](notebooks/autodiff_cookbook.html#jacobian-vector-product). In JAX, JVP is a [transformation](#term-transformation) that is implemented via [`jax.jvp()`](_autosummary/jax.jvp.html#jax.jvp "jax.jvp"). See also [VJP](#term-VJP).

primitive[\#](#term-primitive "Link to this term")  
A primitive is a fundamental unit of computation used in JAX programs. Most functions in [`jax.lax`](jax.lax.html#module-jax.lax "jax.lax") represent individual primitives. When representing a computation in a [jaxpr](#term-jaxpr), each operation in the jaxpr is a primitive.

pure function[\#](#term-pure-function "Link to this term")  
A pure function is a function whose outputs are based only on its inputs, and which has no side-effects. JAX’s [transformation](#term-transformation) model is designed to work with pure functions. See also [functional programming](#term-functional-programming).

pytree[\#](#term-pytree "Link to this term")  
A pytree is an abstraction that lets JAX handle tuples, lists, dicts, and other more general containers of array values in a uniform way. Refer to [Pytrees](pytrees.html#working-with-pytrees) for a more detailed discussion.

reverse-mode autodiff[\#](#term-reverse-mode-autodiff "Link to this term")  
See [VJP](#term-VJP).

SPMD[\#](#term-SPMD "Link to this term")  
Short for *Single Program Multi Data*, it refers to a parallel computation technique in which the same computation (e.g., the forward pass of a neural net) is run on different input data (e.g., different inputs in a batch) in parallel on different devices (e.g., several TPUs). [`jax.pmap()`](_autosummary/jax.pmap.html#jax.pmap "jax.pmap") is a JAX [transformation](#term-transformation) that implements SPMD parallelism.

static[\#](#term-static "Link to this term")  
In a [JIT](#term-JIT) compilation, a value that is not traced (see [Tracer](#term-Tracer)). Also sometimes refers to compile-time computations on static values.

TPU[\#](#term-TPU "Link to this term")  
Short for *Tensor Processing Unit*, TPUs are chips specifically engineered for fast operations on N-dimensional tensors used in deep learning applications. JAX is able to target TPUs for fast operations on arrays (see also [CPU](#term-CPU) and [GPU](#term-GPU)).

Tracer[\#](#term-Tracer "Link to this term")  
An object used as a standin for a JAX [Array](#term-Array) in order to determine the sequence of operations performed by a Python function. Internally, JAX implements this via the jax.core.Tracer class.

transformation[\#](#term-transformation "Link to this term")  
A higher-order function: that is, a function that takes a function as input and outputs a transformed function. Examples in JAX include [`jax.jit()`](_autosummary/jax.jit.html#jax.jit "jax.jit"), [`jax.vmap()`](_autosummary/jax.vmap.html#jax.vmap "jax.vmap"), and [`jax.grad()`](_autosummary/jax.grad.html#jax.grad "jax.grad").

VJP[\#](#term-VJP "Link to this term")  
Short for *Vector Jacobian Product*, also sometimes known as *reverse-mode* automatic differentiation. For more details, see [Vector-Jacobian products (VJPs, aka reverse-mode autodiff)](notebooks/autodiff_cookbook.html#vector-jacobian-product). In JAX, VJP is a [transformation](#term-transformation) that is implemented via [`jax.vjp()`](_autosummary/jax.vjp.html#jax.vjp "jax.vjp"). See also [JVP](#term-JVP).

XLA[\#](#term-XLA "Link to this term")  
Short for *Accelerated Linear Algebra*, XLA is a domain-specific compiler for linear algebra operations that is the primary backend for [JIT](#term-JIT)-compiled JAX code. See [https://www.openxla.org/xla/](https://www.openxla.org/xla/).

weak type[\#](#term-weak-type "Link to this term")  
A JAX data type that has the same type promotion semantics as Python scalars; see [Weakly-typed values in JAX](type_promotion.html#weak-types).

[](changelog.html "previous page")

previous

Change log

[](config_options.html "next page")

next

Configuration Options

By The JAX authors

© Copyright 2024, The JAX Authors.\
